that through an expansion of that
particular tool they have now alright
thick thought thanks very much indeed
very interesting now as you've been
hearing a few hours time India Space
Agency will launch a spacecraft designed
to boldly go where no Asian no Asian
nation has gone to date we're talking
about Mars and if they are successful it
would be a technological leap that would
propel India ahead of space rivals China
and Japan in the field of interplanetary
exploration but the country has been
criticized for spending on a space
program when it's got millions of poor
living on less than a dollar a day this
particular mission has cost India around
73 million dollars now in context that's
relatively a small amount for example in
the States it would spend 10 times as
much on a similar mission overall India
spends around a billion dollars a year
on its space program and has 20
satellites in orbit for communication
and remote sensing well to talk through
this I'm joined by Allison Scott
president of interplanetary society he
joins us via webcam thank you for being
on the program there is a huge debate
about a country like India investing so
much in space I'm assuming that you
would be for this kind of investment
give us your argument given the
thousands if not millions of people who
are really struggling to to get by in
India well I think as as recognized by
India the the space technology is a very
powerful one and a very important one if
a country is going to progress and I
think they recognized this then they
make the investment they've been very
clever about their investment because
they used to buy their satellites they
used to buy their equipment but
gradually they've transferred that over
to manufacturing it themselves and you
always have to have the next target
they've always beat they've always been
trying to get ahead of the game and now
they're doing it they're actually doing
their own thing they're actually they
went to the moon in 2008 so we're next
Mars has to be it but what evidence is
there to show that countries that have
really pushed forward in terms of their
space programs have seen you
an economic benefit for the whole
economy as opposed to a small industry
or aspect of an economy what I think it
goes fairly deeply into the whole of the
lifeblood of the nation in that
education takes a great leap forward in
that people come on board they they see
the technologies that they want to want
to use in everyday life and they start
to actually take an interest and and and
become highly educated in fact we we're
now using a lot of our our best
engineers and scientists come from India
and China all right
Allister I'm afraid we're going to have
to leave this conversation at this point
we could talk for a long time about this
but we appreciate your time Alistair
Scott president of interplanetary
society joining us via webcam